
Question- What is hashing?
Answer- Hashing often refers to the process of securely storing and verifying passwords or credentials. Instead of 
storing plain-text passwords in a database, which can pose a security risk if the database is compromised, systems 
store password hashes. When a user creates or updates a password, it's hashed using a secure hash function. When a 
user attempts to log in, the provided password is hashed using the same hash function, and the resulting hash is 
compared to the stored hash in the database. If they match, the authentication is successful. Hashing is a one-way 
process. The original data cannot be derived from the hash. It's designed to be irreversible.




Question- What is encryption?
Answer- Encryption transforms data into an unreadable format (ciphertext) using an algorithm and a key. The main 
goal is to protect confidentiality by allowing authorized parties to decrypt and access the original data. 
Encryption is a reversible process using a specific key or keys. The ciphertext can be decrypted back to the 
original plaintext using the decryption key.




Question- What is json web tokens?
Answer- JWT stands for JSON Web Token. It's a compact and secure way to transmit information between parties as a 
JSON object. JWTs are commonly used for authentication and information exchange in web applications. They consist 
of three parts: a header specifying the token's type and the cryptographic algorithm used, a payload containing the 
information being transmitted, and a signature to ensure the token hasn't been tampered with. 

Eg- eyJhbGciOiAiSFMyNTYiLCAidHlwIjoiSldUIn0.eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6ICJqhuX2RvZSJ9.kP1T-2cM-m71l89K8AGjyXJbSOmc3r3mJzUKm-Vs
1. Header: eyJhbGciOiAiSFMyNTYiLCAidHlwIjoiSldUIn0 (base64Url-encoded JSON { "alg": "HS256", "typ": "JWT" })
2. Payload: eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6ICJqb2huX2RvZSJ9 (base64Url-encoded JSON { "username": "john_doe" })
3. Signature: kP1T-2cM-m71l89K8Ad6iGjyXJbSOmc3r3mJzUKm-Vs (base64Url-encoded signature created using the header, 
payload, and secret key)

It always give same token for same input.




Question- What is authentication?
Answer- Backend authentication refers to the process of confirming and validating the identity of a user or system 
trying to access a service or application.




Question- What is authorization?
Answer- Authorization refers to the process of determining what actions or activities an authenticated user is 
allowed to perform within a system or an application. It involves granting or denying access rights and permissions 
to resources based on the identity of the user.




Question- What are cookies?
Answer- A cookie is a small piece of data stored in the user’s browser by a website. It helps the server remember 
user information, and cookies are sent automatically (by default) with every HTTP request from the browser to 
the same server.



