
Question- What is database?
Answer- A database is a structured collection of data stored in a computer system. It is designed to store, manage, 
and retrieve data efficiently.




Question- What is difference between sql and nosql?
Answer- Sql-
1. The data is stored in a tabular format.
2. Follows ACID properties.
3. Follows strictly defined schema.
4. Eg- MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, etc.

NoSql-
1. The data is stored in a non-tabular format like documents, key-value pairs, etc.
2. Follows BASE properties.
3. Does not follow strictly defined schema.
4. Eg- MongoDB, CouchDB, Redis, etc.




Question- What are acid properties?
Answer- 1. Atomicity- Transaction should be atomic, either it should be completely executed or not executed at all.
2. Consistency- Data should be consistent before and after transaction.
3. Isolation- Transaction should be isolated from other transactions.
4. Durability- Data should be durable, even if the system crashes.




Question- What are base properties?
Answer- 1. Availability- Data should be available all the time.
2. Soft state- Data should be soft state, it should not be permanent.
3. Eventual consistency- Data should be consistent eventually.




Question- What is MongoDB?
Answer- MongoDB is a NoSQL database management system. It is a document-oriented database program that uses JSON-like 
documents to store data. It is an open-source, cross-platform, and NoSQL database program.




Question- What is mongoose?
Answer- Mongoose is an ODM (Object Data Modeling) library for MongoDB in Node.js that helps you structure your 
data using schemas. It provides easy methods to create, read, update, and delete documents. Maps JavaScript objects ↔ document-based 
structure (BSON/JSON).




Question- What is collection?
Answer- A collection is a group of documents stored in MongoDB. It is similar to a table in a relational database.




Question- What is document?
Answer- A document is a record in a MongoDB collection. It is similar to a row in a relational database.




Question- What is schema?
Answer- A schema is a blueprint for a collection in MongoDB. It defines the structure of the documents in the collection.