
Question- What is CSS?
Answer- CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) is a language used to style and design web pages. It controls how 
HTML elements look — their colors, fonts, layouts, sizes, backgrounds, borders, spacing, etc.   




Question- What are the different types of CSS?
Answer- There are three main types of CSS: Inline CSS, Internal CSS, and External CSS.
1. Inline CSS: Applied directly to an HTML element using the style attribute.
2. Internal CSS: Defined within a <style> tag in the <head> section of an HTML document.
3. External CSS: Linked to an HTML document via a separate .css file using the <link> tag.

Preference Order (from highest to lowest):
1. Inline CSS: Highest priority, applies styles directly to an element. 
2. Internal CSS: Medium priority, applies styles to the entire document but can be overridden by inline
   styles.
3. External CSS: Medium priority, applies styles to multiple documents but can be overridden by inline 
   styles. 

   Internal vs External CSS- The one that comes later in the code will take precedence 
   if both are present.   




Question- What are CSS Selectors?
Answer- CSS selectors are patterns used to select and style HTML elements. Common types include:
1. Element Selector: Selects elements by their tag name (e.g., div, p, h1).
2. Class Selector: Selects elements with a specific class attribute (e.g., .box).
3. ID Selector: Selects a single element with a specific id attribute (e.g., #header).
4. Universal Selector: Selects all elements on the page (e.g., *).

Preference Order (from highest to lowest):
1. !important: Overrides all other styles, regardless of specificity.
2. ID Selector (#id): Highest priority, applies styles to a single unique element.
3. Class Selector (.class): Medium priority, applies styles to all elements with the specified class.
4. Element Selector (element): Lower priority, applies styles to all elements of the specified type.
5. Universal Selector (*): Lowest priority, applies styles to all elements on the page.

<!-- !important > inline > id > classname > tagname > order(bad wala jitega internal vs external m) -->




Question- What is the CSS Box Model?
Answer- The CSS Box Model is a fundamental concept that describes how elements on a web page are 
structured and how their dimensions are calculated. Each element is represented as a rectangular box, 
which consists of four main components:
1. Content: The innermost part of the box where text and images appear. The size of the content area is
   defined by the width and height properties.
2. Padding: The space between the content and the border.
3. Border: The line that surrounds the padding and content.      
4. Margin: The space outside the border.

padding/margin: 10px; // all sides 10px
padding/margin: 10px 20px; // top bottom 10px, left right 20px
padding/margin: 20px 30px 40px 50px; // top 20px, right 30px, bottom 40px, left 50px